[fuji] Add details to 1.5 upgrade guide (#6691)
magma/magma: docs/docusaurus/versioned_docs/version-1.5.0/orc8r/upgrade_1_5.md

documentation.

If you are using local Terraform state (the default), ensure all Terraform
state files are located in your working directory before proceeding. This means
`terraform show` should list existing state, rather than outputting `No state`.

Now fetch the Kubernetes version that your cluster is running. If the AWS CLI
is configured locally, run

```
aws eks describe-cluster --name orc8r
```

and note the `version` listed under `cluster`.

Otherwise, navigate to the AWS UI. Enter service `EKS` and select clusters on
the left hand side of the screen. Note the `Kubernetes version` for the
`orc8r` cluster. Use this version to set `cluster_version` below.

## NMS DB Data Migration

As a pre-requisite task to orc8r upgrade to 1.5, the NMS DB migration needs to
be completed.

Run on a machine with access to the kubernetes cluster you are using to run
Magma.

*Paste in shell prompt:*

`wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/magma/magma/master/nms/app/packages/magmalte/scripts/fuji-upgrade/pre-upgrade-migration.sh && chmod +x pre-upgrade-migration.sh && ./pre-upgrade-migration.sh`

*Terraform main.tf Sanitization*

References to NMS DB need to be removed from the main.tf file.

> Further, the dialect for the orc8r DB needs to be specified.

Reviewer: Can you provide an examples for the dialect variable should be for postgres, mysql and mariadb ?

documentation.

If you are using local Terraform state (the default), ensure all Terraform
state files are located in your working directory before proceeding. This means
`terraform show` should list existing state, rather than outputting `No state`.

Now fetch the Kubernetes version that your cluster is running. If the AWS CLI
is configured locally, run

```
aws eks describe-cluster --name orc8r
```

and note the `version` listed under `cluster`.

Otherwise, navigate to the AWS UI. Enter service `EKS` and select clusters on
the left hand side of the screen. Note the `Kubernetes version` for the
`orc8r` cluster. Use this version to set `cluster_version` below.

## NMS DB Data Migration

As a pre-requisite task to orc8r upgrade to 1.5, the NMS DB migration needs to
be completed. This migration copies all NMS data to the same database housing
orc8r data.
These tables are named
`Users, Organizations, FeatureFlags, AuditLogEntry, SequelizeMeta`
A single script is provided to perform this migration for you, and should
tell you whether or not it was successful. After migration, the tables listed
above should be present in the orc8r database.

> 

Reviewer: Can you add a line on the inputs the script expects (namespace and pod names). Should user stick to defaults for pod names ?

Author: I specifically tried to keep these details light, and the script itself is self-explanatory to some extent, saying what it's doing.

> Run on a machine with access to the kubernetes cluster you are using to run

Reviewer: Better worded as "Script uses kubectl internally to run commands inside the pods,it is important to ensure that we can access the kubernetes cluster running orc8r pods.  (to access the K8s cluster, set your KUBECONFIG environment variable to point to your orc8r cluster's kubeconfig file)"

Magma.

*Paste in shell prompt:*

`wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/magma/magma/master/nms/app/packages/magmalte/scripts/fuji-upgrade/pre-upgrade-migration.sh && chmod +x pre-upgrade-migration.sh && ./pre-upgrade-migration.sh`

*Terraform main.tf Sanitization*

> References to NMS DB need to be removed from the main.tf file.

Reviewer: Instead of "References to NMS DB need to be removed from the main.tf file", Can you specify  that nms_db_host, nms_db_name, nms_db_user, nms_db_pass to be removed from main.tf file, just to remove ambiguity.

> Further, the dialect for the orc8r DB needs to be specified.

Reviewer: minor nit: Change `Further, the dialect for the orc8r DB needs to be specified.` => ```New variable "orc8r_db_dialect" for specifying DB dialect was added in 1.5. This variable's default value is set to postgres. In case of using non postgres db instance, this has to be modified. Common dialects will be `mysql`, `postgres`, and `mariadb`.
See [here](https://sequelize.org/v5/manual/dialects.html) for a list.```

  # ...
  cluster_version = "1.17"   # set to Kubernetes version found above. 1.17 is used as an example here
}

module orc8r-app {
  source = "github.com/magma/magma//orc8r/cloud/deploy/terraform/orc8r-helm-aws?ref=v1.5"
  # ...
  orc8r_chart_version   = "1.5.20"
  orc8r_tag             = "MAGMA_TAG"  # from build step, e.g. v1.5.0
  orc8r_deployment_type = "fwa"        # valid options: ["fwa", "federated_fwa", "all"]
}
```

Set `cluster_version` to the Kubernetes version found during the
`Prerequisites` section. Bump your chart version to `1.5.20` and `orc8r_tag` to
the semver tag you published your new Orchestrator container images as.
You also need to set the `orc8r_deployment_type` variable to the deployment
type that you intend to deploy. This type sets which orc8r modules will run.

Then, prepare Terraform for the upgrade

```bash
terraform init --upgrade
terraform refresh
```

## Terraform apply

Terraform the upgrade.

Apply the upgrade

```bash
terraform apply     # Check this output VERY carefully!
```

After the Terraform command completes, all application components should be
successfully upgraded.

## Post-Upgrade: Sync Pre-defined Alerts

> In v1.5, a new pre-defined alert has been added to raise a critical alert when

Reviewer: New alert have been added to set of predefined alerts in 1.5. "Duplicate request alert" is raised as a critical alert, when we receive more than 100 alerts within last 5 minutes. In case you would like to customize this alert, refer to alerts guide.

# Upgrade to v1.5

This guide covers upgrading Orchestrator deployments from either v1.3 or v1.4
to v1.5.

The v1.5 upgrade follows a standard procedure:

- Migrate NMS DB data to orc8r DB
- Upgrade Terraform modules
- Bump version numbers

## Prerequisites

> Terraform version 0.14.5 is recommended for orc8r upgrades.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Terraform version `0.14.5` is recommended for Orc8r upgrades.
```

> Current terraform scripts are *not* compatible with terraform 0.15.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Current Terraform scripts are *not* compatible with Terraform `0.15.0`.
```

Build and publish the application containers and Helm charts on the head of the
release branch by following the [Build Orchestrator](https://docs.magmacore.org/docs/orc8r/deploy_build)
documentation.

If you are using local Terraform state (the default), ensure all Terraform
state files are located in your working directory before proceeding. This means
`terraform show` should list existing state, rather than outputting `No state`.

Now fetch the Kubernetes version that your cluster is running. If the AWS CLI
is configured locally, run

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
```

aws eks describe-cluster --name orc8r
```

and note the `version` listed under `cluster`.

Otherwise, navigate to the AWS UI. Enter service `EKS` and select clusters on
the left hand side of the screen. Note the `Kubernetes version` for the
`orc8r` cluster. Use this version to set `cluster_version` below.

## NMS DB Data Migration

> As a pre-requisite task to orc8r upgrade to 1.5, the NMS DB migration needs to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before upgrading Orc8r to 1.5, the NMS DB migration needs to
```

be completed. This migration copies all NMS data to the same database housing

> orc8r data.

Reviewer 2: Here and everywhere else -- "Orc8r" not "orc8r"

These tables are named

> `Users, Organizations, FeatureFlags, AuditLogEntry, SequelizeMeta`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Users`, `Organizations`, `FeatureFlags`, `AuditLogEntry`, `SequelizeMeta`
```

A single script is provided to perform this migration for you, and should

> tell you whether or not it was successful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tell you whether it was successful.
```

> After migration, the tables listed above should be present in the orc8r

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Post-migration, the tables listed above should be present in the Orc8r
```

database.
The script will ask for various inputs, and defaults can be chosen unless the
script fails to find certain information, such as pod names.

> Script uses kubectl internally to run commands inside the pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The script uses kubectl internally to run commands inside the pods.
```

> It is important to ensure that we can access the kubernetes cluster running

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is important to ensure that you can access the Kubernetes cluster running
```

> orc8r pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Orc8r pods.
```

To access the K8s cluster, set your KUBECONFIG environment variable to point
to your orc8r cluster's kubeconfig file.

*Paste in shell prompt:*

> `wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/magma/magma/master/nms/app/packages/magmalte/scripts/fuji-upgrade/pre-upgrade-migration.sh && chmod +x pre-upgrade-migration.sh && ./pre-upgrade-migration.sh`

Reviewer 2: Use multi-line triple-backticks for this

> *Terraform main.tf Sanitization*

Reviewer 2: Make this its own section

The following variables should be removed from the main.tf file:
```
- nms_db_host
- nms_db_name
- nms_db_user
- nms_db_pass
```

> New variable "orc8r_db_dialect" for specifying DB dialect was added in 1.5.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
New variable `orc8r_db_dialect` for specifying DB dialect was added in 1.5.
```

This variable's default value is set to `postgres`.
In case of using non postgres db instance, this must be modified.
Common dialects will be `mysql`, `postgres`, and `mariadb`.

> See [here](https://sequelize.org/v5/manual/dialects.html) for a list.

Reviewer 2: Don't use `here` for link text

  # ...
  orc8r_chart_version   = "1.5.20"
  orc8r_tag             = "MAGMA_TAG"  # from build step, e.g. v1.5.0
  orc8r_deployment_type = "fwa"        # valid options: ["fwa", "federated_fwa", "all"]
}
```

Set `cluster_version` to the Kubernetes version found during the
`Prerequisites` section. Bump your chart version to `1.5.20` and `orc8r_tag` to
the semver tag you published your new Orchestrator container images as.
You also need to set the `orc8r_deployment_type` variable to the deployment
type that you intend to deploy. This type sets which orc8r modules will run.

Then, prepare Terraform for the upgrade

```bash
terraform init --upgrade
terraform refresh
```

## Terraform apply

Terraform the upgrade.

Apply the upgrade

```bash
terraform apply     # Check this output VERY carefully!
```

After the Terraform command completes, all application components should be
successfully upgraded.

## Post-Upgrade: Sync Pre-defined Alerts

New alert have been added to set of predefined alerts in 1.5.
"Duplicate request alert" is raised as a critical alert, when we receive more
than 100 alerts within last 5 minutes. In case you would like to customize

> this alert, refer to alerts guide.

Reviewer 2: Hyperlink to the alerts guide

In order to start receiving these alarms, it is necessary to click on the

> “Sync Pre-Defined alerts” in the NMS window for _*every*_ network defined in

Reviewer 2: Either hyperlink to this howto, or include a picture
